Policy and Procedures
Any person may challenge a Florida Water Star designation on a property. They may bring challenges regarding the original irrigation design, landscape design, and products used to prove conformity when the certificate of conformity was issued. We shall not accept a challenge where a certificate of conformity was issued over one year before the challenge or prior to a sale of the home. A challenge is brought by submitting a challenge application. The application shall contain a concise but complete statement of the Challenger’s claim, with reasonable substantiation for the claim. The Challenger shall not be anonymous. 

The program authority, Administrator, shall have the sole authority to accept or reject the application. If the Administrator rejects the application, a full explanation of the rejection is sent to the Challenger.
 
If the application is accepted, the Administrator may request that the Challenger agree to pay for the challenge if found to be without cause and ask for a challenge deposit. The Administrator shall convey a copy of the application to the inspector responsible for the property’s validation. The inspector shall review the application and request any additional information needed to render their decision to the Administrator as to the accuracy of the original validation of the property. This information shall include all data used in irrigation design calculations. For landscaping, the inspector shall also review the original photographs and compare them to the present view. The inspector shall also provide documented proof that the property met indoor criteria. The inspector shall issue a written response within in 30 days of when the application was accepted by the Administrator. The inspector’s written response shall show whether the original certificate of conformity is accurate and state, the basis for the decision. The Administrator shall review the inspector’s challenge response and may accept it as written or may request an independent review and/or reinspection. The Administrator shall have sole authority to appoint an individual(s) or a firm(s) to review the inspector’s response and/or inspect.

The Administrator shall have the sole authority to accept or reject the responses and provide a ruling. In the event the final determination finds that the property, and therefore the basis, for the original certificate of conformity does not meet program requirements, the Administrator shall withdraw the original certificate of conformity and remove the property from a list of Florida Water Star properties. If original certificate of conformity is withdrawn, the inspector shall pay all expenses related to conducting the challenge, including reasonable travel and reinspection costs. Failure to fulfill this responsibility may revoke the inspector’s and original builder’s good standing within the program. If the final determination results in upholding the original certificate of conformity, the Challenger shall pay all expenses of the challenge related to conducting the challenge, including reasonable travel and reinspection costs.
